#summary Information for first time users

= Requirements =

 * A recent version of Matlab 

= Downloading =

Download the current version of the entire Pulmonary Toolkit and place in a folder on your Matlab path.

= Data = 

The toolkit is designed for use with high-resolution CT and MRI clinical lung images in 3D. Other types of image may work but are not officially supported.

Data can be imported in a variety of formats. You should import from original DICOM files where available, so that the toolkit can make use of its metadata.

= Running TDViewer =

TDViewer is a standalone application for visualising 3D or 2D data slice-by-slice. See the page [TDViewer] for more information


To visualise a 3D volume contained in the matrix my_image, run:
{{{
    TDViewer(my_image);
}}}
`my_image` can also be a TDImage or TDDicomImage class. This is preferable, because then TDViewer will respect the voxel size and automatically display a title based on the patient name.

You may first need to add the PTK paths
{{{
    TDAddPtkPaths;
}}}

You can specify an image type to control how the image is displayed:
{{{
    TDViewer(my_image, image_type);
}}}
Possible values of image_type are:

 * `TDImageType.Grayscale` - visualise a greyscale image (use for CT and MRI data)
 * `TDImageType.Colormap`  - visualise using the Lines colourmap. Each voxel represents a colour, e.g. 1 = blue, 2 = green, 3 = red etc.
 * `TDImageType.Scaled`       - visualise in shades of red (positive values) or blue (negative values), scaling the image so that the smallest value is black and the highest value is red.

To view data from DICOM files, load them into a TDImage and then display this:
{{{
    dicom_image = TDLoadImageFromDicomFiles(path, filenames);
    TDViewer(dicom_image);
}}}
A similar approach applies to mhd/raw files:
{{{
    my_image = TDLoad3DRawAndMetaFiles(path, filenames, uid);
    TDViewer(my_image);
}}}
Note you must specify an image uid, because this is not specified in the metaheader.

= Running the Pulmonary Toolkit user interface=

To run the PTK gui, run
{{{
ptk
}}}
The use the Load button to import data 