#summary How to install the Pulmonary Toolkit and enable all features


= Requirements =

You will need to install certain software before you can use the Pulmonary Toolkit. I recommend you install everything so that all the features are available to you. However, you can miss out certain programs if you don't mind not being able to use certain features.

Apart from Matlab and the Matlab Image Processing Toolbox, all the required software is free and available for Windows, Linux and Mac OSX.


== Minimum Requirements ==

  * Matlab version R2010b or later
  * The Matlab Image Processing Toolbox
  * a Subversion client (in order to download and update the software)

A variety of Subversion clients exist, e.g. Tortoise SVN, SmartSVN, SVNX.
Linux users can install subversion from http://subversion.apache.org/packages.html or using 
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install subversion
}}}


== Additional Requirements ==

Many features (e.g. lung segmentation, vessel segmentation) will also require these features:

  * C++ compiler

Linux users may already have gcc installed. Max OSX users can download Xcode free from the Apple AppStore. Windows users can install Visual Studio C++ Express free from Microsoft.


== Requirements for lobe segmentation ==

Lobe segmentation makes use of external code, which must be installed separately:

  * the gerardaus project (http://code.google.com/p/gerardus)
  * Boost C++ libraries (http://www.boost.org)


Linux users may be able to install Boost as follows:
{{{
sudo apt-get install libboost1.46-all-dev
}}}

Mac OSX users with MacPorts installed can install Boost as follows:
{{{
sudo port install boost
}}}

Windows 32-bit users can install. [http://www.boostpro.com BoostPro]

Windows 64-bit users will need to download Boost and install it on the command line using:
{
bootstrap
bjam link=shared
}

See [http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_49_0/more/getting_started/unix-variants.html here] for instructions on how to install Boost using other variants of Unix.



  * ITK
 
ITK is not used by the Pulmonary Toolkit, but it is used by parts of the Gerardus project. Following the normal installation procedure for Gerardus requires the installation of ITK.


= Installing - step by step instructions =

  # Install [http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/ Matlab] and the [http://www.mathworks.com/products/image/ Matlab Image Processing Toolbox].

Note: Matlab is a paid-for product, but if you are associated with an educational institution it may have licenses you can use. 

  # Install a [http://subversion.apache.org/ Subversion] client.

Subversion is a widely-used version control system. It allows you to download the Pulmonary Toolkit and to update it (to receive new features and box fixes) without losing any changes or additions you have made.

Linux users can install subversion from http://subversion.apache.org/packages.html or using
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install subversion
}}}

A variety of Subversion clients are available for Windows (e.g. Tortoise SVN, Smart SVN) and for Mac OSX (e.g. Smart SVN, SVNX). Mac users with MacPorts installed can also obtain subversion this way

  # Check out the Pulmonary Toolkit using Subversion


